.github/instructions/comp-toml.instructions.md, before:

---
applyTo: "**/*.comp.toml"
---

# Component Definition Files (`*.comp.toml`)

Component definitions tell `azldev` where to find a spec and how to customize it. Schema: [`azldev.schema.json`](../../external/schemas/azldev.schema.json) (or `azldev config generate-schema` for latest).

## Structure

Every component lives under `[components.<name>]`. A bare entry inherits defaults from the distro config:

```toml
[components.curl]
```

### Key fields

| Field | Purpose | Example |
|-------|---------|---------|
| `spec` | Where to find the spec | `{ type = "upstream" }`, `{ type = "local", path = "mypackage.spec" }` |
| `spec.upstream-name` | Upstream package name (if different) | `"redhat-rpm-config"` |
| `spec.upstream-distro` | Pin to a specific distro/version | `{ name = "fedora", version = "rawhide" }` |
| `overlays` | List of spec/source modifications | See Overlays section |
| `build.defines` | RPM macro overrides | `{ rhel = "11" }` |
| `build.with` | Enable build conditionals | `["feature_x"]` |
| `build.without` | Disable build conditionals | `["plugin_rhsm"]` |

## Spec Source Types

```toml
# Upstream (default) — inherits distro's Fedora version
[components.curl]

# Upstream — pinned version
[components.curl]
spec = { type = "upstream", upstream-distro = { name = "fedora", version = "rawhide" } }

# Upstream — different package name
[components.azurelinux-rpm-config]
spec = { type = "upstream", upstream-name = "redhat-rpm-config" }

# Local spec (Azure Linux-originating package)
[components.azurelinux-release]
spec = { type = "local", path = "azurelinux-release.spec" }
```

## Overlays

Overlays modify upstream specs/sources without forking. Every overlay **MUST** have a `description` field explaining *why* the change is needed.

### TOML syntax

Use **array-of-tables** (multi-line) for overlays — one `[[...overlays]]` block per overlay:

```toml
# Targeted type (preferred) — more robust to upstream changes
[[components.curl.overlays]]
description = "Add missing build dependency for Azure Linux"
type = "spec-add-tag"
tag = "BuildRequires"
value = "golang >= 1.21"

# Regex type (last resort) — brittle if upstream changes the line
[[components.rpm.overlays]]
description = "Customize RPM vendor"
type = "spec-search-replace"
regex = "RPM_VENDOR=redhat"
replacement = "RPM_VENDOR=azurelinux"
```

### Overlay types

| Type | Does | Key fields |
|------|------|------------|
| `spec-add-tag` | Add a new tag to spec | `tag`, `value` |
| `spec-set-tag` | Replace existing tag value | `tag`, `value` |
| `spec-update-tag` | Append to existing tag | `tag`, `value` |
| `spec-remove-tag` | Remove a tag | `tag` |
| `spec-prepend-lines` | Insert at start of section body | `section`, `lines` |
| `spec-append-lines` | Insert at end of section body | `section`, `lines` |
| `spec-search-replace` | Regex replace in spec | `regex`, `replacement` |
| `file-add` | Add a file to sources root | `file`, `source` |
| `file-remove` | Remove a file from sources | `file` |
| `file-rename` | Rename a source file | `file`, `replacement` |
| `file-prepend-lines` | Prepend lines to a file | `file`, `lines` |
| `file-search-replace` | Regex replace in source files | `file`, `regex`, `replacement` |

Optional fields that apply to multiple types: `section` (target spec section), `package` (target sub-package).

### Overlay pitfalls

- **Do NOT use inline array syntax for overlays.** Write each overlay as a separate `[[components.<name>.overlays]]` block (array-of-tables), not as `overlays = [{ ... }, { ... }]`. The inline form is valid TOML but harder to read and review. Some older components in the repo use the inline style — don't copy it.
- **No `$schema` in TOML.** `$` is invalid at the start of a bare TOML key.
- **No multi-line regex.** `spec-search-replace` doesn't support `(?s)`/DOTALL. Use multiple single-line replacements.
- **No backreferences in `spec-search-replace`.** `${1}` or `$1` in `replacement` is literal text, not a capture group backreference. Repeat the matched text in the replacement instead.
- **`lines` must be an array of strings.** Use `lines = ["single line"]` or a multi-line array `lines = ["line1", "line2"]`, not a bare string like `lines = "..."`.
- **`file-add` places files at the sources root**, alongside the tarball and other Source files — NOT inside the extracted source tree. To install the added file, also add a `spec-add-tag` for the corresponding `Source` tag and a `spec-append-lines` in `%install` to install it. To modify files inside the extracted tree, use `file-search-replace` or add a `sed` command in `%prep` via `spec-append-lines`.
- **Use TOML literal strings for regex.** `regex = 'RPM_VENDOR=redhat'` avoids double-escaping backslashes.
- **Prefer targeted types over regex.** `spec-add-tag`, `spec-set-tag`, `spec-prepend-lines`, etc. are more robust to upstream changes. Use `spec-search-replace` as a last resort.
- **`spec-prepend-lines` and `spec-append-lines` operate *within* a section body.** `spec-prepend-lines` inserts right after the section header (start of body); `spec-append-lines` inserts at the end of the section body (before the next section). Neither inserts outside the section boundary. For example, to add install commands at the end of `%install`, use `spec-append-lines` with `section = "%install"` — do NOT use `spec-prepend-lines` with `section = "%files"` (that would put the lines inside `%files`).
- **Don't rename `Name:`.** Changing the spec `Name:` tag causes cascading breakage (`%{name}` in Source0, `%setup`, paths, `%files`).
- **`file-search-replace` supports globs.** Use `file = "**/*"` to replace across all source files.

## File Organization

- **Inline** (in `components.toml`): for simple imports with no customization (`[components.jq]`)
- **Dedicated** (`<name>/<name>.comp.toml`): when overlays, build config, or local spec are needed
- Rule of thumb: if it's more than `[components.<name>]`, give it a dedicated file
- `components.toml` has `includes = ["**/*.comp.toml"]` — dedicated files are picked up automatically

## Build Configuration

```toml
# Override RPM macros
[components.wget2.build]
defines = { rhel = "11" }

# Enable build conditionals
[components.mypackage.build]
with = ["feature_x"]

# Disable build conditionals
[components.dnf5.build]
without = ["plugin_rhsm"]
```

## Validation

Verify overlays apply cleanly with `azldev comp prep-sources` before committing. See skills `azl-build-component` and `azl-fix-overlay` for step-by-step workflows.

Commit message:

docs(ai): Iterate on koji agent (#15904)
- **Extracted koji-query agent instructions into a reusable skill** — moved the bulk of the investigation workflow, discovery paths, failure categories, and examples from `koji-query.agent.md` into a new `azl-koji-triage` skill; agent file now just references the skill
- **Added agent handoffs** to koji-query agent (diagnose & fix, follow-up questions, write summary to file)
- **Enabled spec-review agent** for user invocation (`user-invokable`, `argument-hint`, `agents`)
- **Hardened koji MCP server** — reject non-http(s) URLs, block embedded credentials, require leading `/` on paths, fix typo in SSL error message
- **Removed CLI fallbacks** (bash/PowerShell) from koji triage — MCP is now the only supported method; added troubleshooting guidance for MCP setup issues instead
- **Added description comment guidance** to `comp-toml.instructions.md` — when to add TOML comments explaining field values (with good/bad examples)
- **Added Agents and CLI Agents sections** to `README.md` documenting `koji-query` and `spec-review` agents
- **Registered koji-triage skill** in `AGENTS.md` skills table

.github/instructions/comp-toml.instructions.md, after:

---
applyTo: "**/*.comp.toml"
---

# Component Definition Files (`*.comp.toml`)

Component definitions tell `azldev` where to find a spec and how to customize it. Schema: [`azldev.schema.json`](../../external/schemas/azldev.schema.json) (or `azldev config generate-schema` for latest).

## Structure

Every component lives under `[components.<name>]`. A bare entry inherits defaults from the distro config:

```toml
[components.curl]
```

### Key fields

| Field | Purpose | Example |
|-------|---------|---------|
| `spec` | Where to find the spec | `{ type = "upstream" }`, `{ type = "local", path = "mypackage.spec" }` |
| `spec.upstream-name` | Upstream package name (if different) | `"redhat-rpm-config"` |
| `spec.upstream-distro` | Pin to a specific distro/version | `{ name = "fedora", version = "rawhide" }` |
| `overlays` | List of spec/source modifications | See Overlays section |
| `build.defines` | RPM macro overrides | `{ rhel = "11" }` |
| `build.with` | Enable build conditionals | `["feature_x"]` |
| `build.without` | Disable build conditionals | `["plugin_rhsm"]` |

## Spec Source Types

```toml
# Upstream (default) — inherits distro's Fedora version
[components.curl]

# Upstream — pinned version
[components.curl]
spec = { type = "upstream", upstream-distro = { name = "fedora", version = "rawhide" } }

# Upstream — different package name
[components.azurelinux-rpm-config]
spec = { type = "upstream", upstream-name = "redhat-rpm-config" }

# Local spec (Azure Linux-originating package)
[components.azurelinux-release]
spec = { type = "local", path = "azurelinux-release.spec" }
```

## Overlays

Overlays modify upstream specs/sources without forking. Every overlay **MUST** have a `description` field explaining *why* the change is needed.

### TOML syntax

Use **array-of-tables** (multi-line) for overlays — one `[[...overlays]]` block per overlay:

```toml
# Targeted type (preferred) — more robust to upstream changes
[[components.curl.overlays]]
description = "Add missing build dependency for Azure Linux"
type = "spec-add-tag"
tag = "BuildRequires"
value = "golang >= 1.21"

# Regex type (last resort) — brittle if upstream changes the line
[[components.rpm.overlays]]
description = "Customize RPM vendor"
type = "spec-search-replace"
regex = "RPM_VENDOR=redhat"
replacement = "RPM_VENDOR=azurelinux"
```

### Overlay types

| Type | Does | Key fields |
|------|------|------------|
| `spec-add-tag` | Add a new tag to spec | `tag`, `value` |
| `spec-set-tag` | Replace existing tag value | `tag`, `value` |
| `spec-update-tag` | Append to existing tag | `tag`, `value` |
| `spec-remove-tag` | Remove a tag | `tag` |
| `spec-prepend-lines` | Insert at start of section body | `section`, `lines` |
| `spec-append-lines` | Insert at end of section body | `section`, `lines` |
| `spec-search-replace` | Regex replace in spec | `regex`, `replacement` |
| `file-add` | Add a file to sources root | `file`, `source` |
| `file-remove` | Remove a file from sources | `file` |
| `file-rename` | Rename a source file | `file`, `replacement` |
| `file-prepend-lines` | Prepend lines to a file | `file`, `lines` |
| `file-search-replace` | Regex replace in source files | `file`, `regex`, `replacement` |

Optional fields that apply to multiple types: `section` (target spec section), `package` (target sub-package).

### Overlay pitfalls

- **Do NOT use inline array syntax for overlays.** Write each overlay as a separate `[[components.<name>.overlays]]` block (array-of-tables), not as `overlays = [{ ... }, { ... }]`. The inline form is valid TOML but harder to read and review. Some older components in the repo use the inline style — don't copy it.
- **No `$schema` in TOML.** `$` is invalid at the start of a bare TOML key.
- **No multi-line regex.** `spec-search-replace` doesn't support `(?s)`/DOTALL. Use multiple single-line replacements.
- **No backreferences in `spec-search-replace`.** `${1}` or `$1` in `replacement` is literal text, not a capture group backreference. Repeat the matched text in the replacement instead.
- **`lines` must be an array of strings.** Use `lines = ["single line"]` or a multi-line array `lines = ["line1", "line2"]`, not a bare string like `lines = "..."`.
- **`file-add` places files at the sources root**, alongside the tarball and other Source files — NOT inside the extracted source tree. To install the added file, also add a `spec-add-tag` for the corresponding `Source` tag and a `spec-append-lines` in `%install` to install it. To modify files inside the extracted tree, use `file-search-replace` or add a `sed` command in `%prep` via `spec-append-lines`.
- **Use TOML literal strings for regex.** `regex = 'RPM_VENDOR=redhat'` avoids double-escaping backslashes.
- **Prefer targeted types over regex.** `spec-add-tag`, `spec-set-tag`, `spec-prepend-lines`, etc. are more robust to upstream changes. Use `spec-search-replace` as a last resort.
- **`spec-prepend-lines` and `spec-append-lines` operate *within* a section body.** `spec-prepend-lines` inserts right after the section header (start of body); `spec-append-lines` inserts at the end of the section body (before the next section). Neither inserts outside the section boundary. For example, to add install commands at the end of `%install`, use `spec-append-lines` with `section = "%install"` — do NOT use `spec-prepend-lines` with `section = "%files"` (that would put the lines inside `%files`).
- **Don't rename `Name:`.** Changing the spec `Name:` tag causes cascading breakage (`%{name}` in Source0, `%setup`, paths, `%files`).
- **`file-search-replace` supports globs.** Use `file = "**/*"` to replace across all source files.

## File Organization

- **Inline** (in `components.toml`): for simple imports with no customization (`[components.jq]`)
- **Dedicated** (`<name>/<name>.comp.toml`): when overlays, build config, or local spec are needed
- Rule of thumb: if it's more than `[components.<name>]`, give it a dedicated file
- `components.toml` has `includes = ["**/*.comp.toml"]` — dedicated files are picked up automatically

## Build Configuration

```toml
# Override RPM macros
[components.wget2.build]
defines = { rhel = "11" }

# Enable build conditionals
[components.mypackage.build]
with = ["feature_x"]

# Disable build conditionals
[components.dnf5.build]
without = ["plugin_rhsm"]
```

## Adding Description Comments

When adding or modifying fields in a `.comp.toml` file, check the schema (`external/schemas/azldev.schema.json`) for a `description` on that field. If the schema field **does not** have a `description` key (or equivalent, i.e. `skip_reason` for check skip), add a TOML comment above the field explaining what it does and why it's set to that value. This helps future readers (human and agent) understand fields that aren't self-documenting via the schema.

**BUT**... don't add pointless noise - if the change is self-explanatory and requires no additional context, a comment may not be necessary. Use your judgement, but when in doubt, add a comment.

DO:

```toml
# Pin to Fedora rawhide since we need feature 'x' that is not in stable releases yet.
# Re-align to a stable release once the feature is backported or a new release is available.
spec = { type = "upstream", upstream-distro = { name = "fedora", version = "rawhide" } }
```

Offers important context about *why* the component is pinned to rawhide, which is not obvious from the TOML field alone. Future readers will understand the rationale and know to check for backports or new releases to remove the rawhide pin.

DO NOT:

```toml
# Need new stuff.
spec = { type = "upstream", upstream-distro = { name = "fedora", version = "rawhide" } }
```

This offers no real information beyond what the TOML field already says, and doesn't explain *why* the new stuff is needed, or what that new stuff is. It's just noise.

## Validation

Verify overlays apply cleanly with `azldev comp prep-sources` before committing. See skills `azl-build-component` and `azl-fix-overlay` for step-by-step workflows.
