toolkit/tools/imagecustomizer/docs/configuration.md, before:

# Mariner Image Customizer configuration

The Mariner Image Customizer is configured using a YAML (or JSON) file.

### Operation ordering

1. Override the `/etc/resolv.conf` file with the version from the host OS.

2. Update packages:

   1. Remove packages ([PackageListsRemove](#packagelistsremove-string),
   [PackagesRemove](#packagesremove-string))

   2. Update base image packages ([UpdateBaseImagePackages](#updatebaseimagepackages-bool)).

   3. Install packages ([PackageListsInstall](#packagelistsinstall-string),
   [PackagesInstall](#packagesinstall-string))

   4. Update packages ([PackageListsUpdate](#packagelistsupdate-string),
   [PackagesUpdate](#packagesupdate-string))

3. Update hostname. ([Hostname](#hostname-string))

4. Copy additional files. ([AdditionalFiles](#additionalfiles-mapstring-fileconfig))

5. Add/update users. ([Users](#users-user))

6. Enable/disable services. ([Services](#services-type))

7. Configure kernel modules.

8. Run post-install scripts. ([PostInstallScripts](#postinstallscripts-script))

9. Run finalize image scripts. ([FinalizeImageScripts](#finalizeimagescripts-script))

10. Delete `/etc/resolv.conf` file.

### /etc/resolv.conf

The `/etc/resolv.conf` file is overridden so that the package installation and
customization scripts can have access to the network.
It is assumed there is a process that runs on boot that will write the
`/etc/resolv.conf` file.
For example, `systemd-resolved`.
Hence, the `/etc/resolv.conf` file is simply deleted at the end instead of being
restored to its original contents.

### Replacing packages

If you wish to replace a package with conflicting package, then you can remove the
existing package using [PackagesRemove](#packagesremove-string) and then install the
new package with [PackagesInstall](#packagesinstall-string).

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackagesRemove:
  - kernel

  PackagesInstall:
  - kernel-hci
```

## Top-level

The top level type for the YAML file is the [Config](#config-type) type.

## Config type

The top-level type of the configuration.

### Disks [[Disk](#disk-type)[]]

Contains the options for provisioning disks and their partitions.

If the Disks field isn't specified, then the partitions of the base image aren't
changed.

If Disks is specified, then [SystemConfig.BootType](#boottype-boottype) must also be
specified.

While Disks is a list, only 1 disk is supported at the moment.
Support for multiple disks may (or may not) be added in the future.

```yaml
Disks:
- PartitionTableType: gpt
  MaxSize: 4096
  Partitions:
  - ID: esp
    Flags:
    - esp
    - boot
    Start: 1
    End: 9
    FsType: fat32

  - ID: rootfs
    Start: 9
    FsType: ext4

SystemConfig:
  BootType: efi
  PartitionSettings:
  - ID: esp
    MountPoint: /boot/efi
    MountOptions: umask=0077

  - ID: rootfs
    MountPoint: /
```

### SystemConfig [[SystemConfig](#systemconfig-type)]

Contains the configuration options for the OS.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Hostname: example-image
```

## Disk type

Specifies the properties of a disk, including its partitions.

### PartitionTableType [string]

Specifies how the partition tables are laid out.

Supported options:

- `gpt`: Use the GUID Partition Table (GPT) format.

### MaxSize [uint64]

The size of the disk, specified in mebibytes (MiB).

### Partitions [[Partition](#partition-type)]

The partitions to provision on the disk.

## FileConfig type

Specifies options for placing a file in the OS.

Type is used by: [AdditionalFiles](#additionalfiles-mapstring-fileconfig)

### Path [string]

The absolute path of the destination file.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  AdditionalFiles:
    files/a.txt:
    - Path: /a.txt
```

### Permissions [string]

The permissions to set on the destination file.

Supported formats:

- String containing an octal string. e.g. `"664"`

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  AdditionalFiles:
    files/a.txt:
    - Path: /a.txt
      Permissions: "664"
```

## Module type

Options for configuring a kernel module.

### Name

Name of the module.

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Modules:
    Load:
    - Name: br_netfilter
```

## Modules type

Options for configuring kernel modules.

### Load [[Module](#module-type)[]]

Sets kernel modules to be loaded automatically on boot.

Implemented by adding an entry to `/etc/modules-load.d/`.

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Modules:
    Load:
    - Name: br_netfilter
```

### Disable [[Module](#module-type)[]]

Disable kernel modules from being loaded.

Implemented by adding a "blacklist" entry to `/etc/modprobe.d/`.

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Modules:
    Disable:
    - Name: mousedev
```

## PackageList type

Used to split off lists of packages into a separate file.
This is useful for sharing list of packages between different configuration files.

This type is used by:

- [PackageListsInstall](#packagelistsinstall-string)
- [PackageListsRemove](#packagelistsremove-string)
- [PackageListsUpdate](#packagelistsupdate-string)

### Packages [string[]]

Specifies a list of packages.

Example:

```yaml
Packages:
- openssh-server
```

## Partition type

### ID [string]

Required.

The ID of the partition.
This is used correlate Partition objects with [PartitionSetting](#partitionsetting-type)
objects.

### FsType [string]

Required.

The filesystem type of the partition.

Supported options:

- `ext4`
- `fat32`
- `xfs`

### Name [string]

The label to assign to the partition.

### Start [uint64]

Required.

The start location (inclusive) of the partition, specified in MiBs.

### End [uint64]

The end location (exclusive) of the partition, specified in MiBs.

The End and Size fields cannot be specified at the same time.

Either the Size or End field is required for all partitions except for the last
partition.
When both the Size and End fields are omitted, the last partition will fill the
remainder of the disk (based on the disk's [MaxSize](#maxsize-uint64) field).

### Size [uint64]

The size of the partition, specified in MiBs.

### Flags [string[]]

Specifies options for the partition.

Supported options:

- `esp`: The UEFI System Partition (ESP).
  The partition must have a `FsType` of `fat32`.

  When specified on a GPT formatted disk, the `boot` flag must also be added.

- `bios_grub`: Specifies this partition is the BIOS boot partition.
  This is required for GPT disks that wish to be bootable using legacy BIOS mode.

  This partition must start at block 1.

  This flag is only supported on GPT formatted disks.

  For further details, see: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BIOS_boot_partition

- `boot`: Specifies that this partition contains the boot loader.

  When specified on a GPT formatted disk, the `esp` flag must also be added.

These options mirror those in
[parted](https://www.gnu.org/software/parted/manual/html_node/set.html).

## PartitionSetting type

Specifies the mount options for a partition.

### ID [string]

Required.

The ID of the partition.
This is used correlate [Partition](#partition-type) objects with PartitionSetting
objects.

### MountIdentifier [string]

Default: `partuuid`

The partition ID type that should be used to recognize the partition on the disk.

Supported options:

- `uuid`: The filesystem's partition UUID.

- `partuuid`: The partition UUID specified in the partition table.

- `partlabel`: The partition label specified in the partition table.

### MountOptions [string]

The additional options used when mounting the file system.

These options are in the same format as [mount](https://linux.die.net/man/8/mount)'s
`-o` option (or the `fs_mntops` field of the
[fstab](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/fstab.5.html) file).

### MountPoint [string]

Required.

The absolute path of where the partition should be mounted.

The mounts will be sorted to ensure that parent directories are mounted before child
directories.
For example, `/boot` will be mounted before `/boot/efi`.

## Script type

Points to a script file (typically a Bash script) to be run during customization.

### Path [string]

The path of the script.

This must be in the same directory or a sub-directory that the config file is located
in.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PostInstallScripts:
  - Path: scripts/a.sh
```

### Args [string]

Additional arguments to pass to the script.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PostInstallScripts:
  - Path: scripts/a.sh
    Args: abc
```

## Services type

Options for configuring systemd services.

### Enable

A list of services to enable.
That is, services that will be set to automatically run on OS boot.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Services:
    Enable:
    - sshd
```

### Disable

A list of services to disable.
That is, services that will be set to not automatically run on OS boot.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Services:
    Disable:
    - sshd
```

## SystemConfig type

Contains the configuration options for the OS.

### BootType [string]

Specifies the boot system that the image supports.

Supported options:

- `legacy`: Support booting from BIOS firmware.

  When this option is specified, the partition layout must contain a partition with the
  `bios_grub` flag.

- `efi`: Support booting from UEFI firmware.

  When this option is specified, the partition layout must contain a partition with the
  `esp` flag.

### Hostname [string]

Specifies the hostname for the OS.

Implemented by writing to the `/etc/hostname` file.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Hostname: example-image
```

### UpdateBaseImagePackages [bool]

Updates the packages that exist in the base image.

Implemented by calling: `tdnf update`

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  UpdateBaseImagePackages: true
```

### PackageListsInstall [string[]]

Same as [PackagesInstall](#packagesinstall-string) but the packages are specified in a
separate YAML (or JSON) file.

The other YAML file schema is specified by [PackageList](#packagelist-type).

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackageListsRemove:
  - lists/ssh.yaml
```

### PackagesInstall [string[]]

Installs packages onto the image.

Implemented by calling: `tdnf install`.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackagesInstall:
  - openssh-server
```

### PackageListsRemove [string[]]

Same as [PackagesRemove](#packagesremove-string) but the packages are specified in a
separate YAML (or JSON) file.

The other YAML file schema is specified by [PackageList](#packagelist-type).

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackageListsRemove:
  - lists/ssh.yaml
```

### PackagesRemove [string[]]

Removes packages from the image.

Implemented by calling: `tdnf remove`

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackagesRemove:
  - openssh-server
```

### PackageListsUpdate [string[]]

Same as [PackagesUpdate](#packagesupdate-string) but the packages are specified in a
separate YAML (or JSON) file.

The other YAML file schema is specified by [PackageList](#packagelist-type).

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackageListsUpdate:
  - lists/ssh.yaml
```

### PackagesUpdate [string[]]

Updates packages on the system.

Implemented by calling: `tdnf update`

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackagesUpdate:
  - openssh-server
```

### AdditionalFiles [Map\<string, [FileConfig](#fileconfig-type)[]>]

Copy files into the OS image.

This property is a dictionary of source file paths to destination files.

The destination files value can be one of:

- The absolute path of a destination file.
- A [FileConfig](#fileconfig-type) object.
- A list containing a mixture of paths and [FileConfig](#fileconfig-type) objects.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  AdditionalFiles:
    # Single destination.
    files/a.txt: /a.txt

    # Single destinations with options.
    files/b.txt:
      Path: /b.txt
      Permissions: "664"

    # Multiple destinations.
    files/c.txt:
    - /c1.txt
    - Path: /c2.txt
      Permissions: "664"
```

### PartitionSettings [[PartitionSetting](#partitionsetting-type)[]]

Specifies the mount options of the partitions.

### PostInstallScripts [[Script](#script-type)[]]

Scripts to run against the image after the packages have been added and removed.

These scripts are run under a chroot of the customized OS.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PostInstallScripts:
  - Path: scripts/a.sh
```

### FinalizeImageScripts [[Script](#script-type)[]]

Scripts to run against the image just before the image is finalized.

These scripts are run under a chroot of the customized OS.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  FinalizeImageScripts:
  - Path: scripts/a.sh
```

### Users [[User](#user-type)]

Used to add and/or update user accounts.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
```

### Services [[Services](#services-type)]

Options for configuring systemd services.

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Services:
    Enable:
    - sshd
```

### Modules [[Modules](#modules-type)]

Options for configuration kernel modules.

## User type

Options for configuring a user account.

### Name [string]

Required.

The name of the user.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
```

### UID [int]

The ID to use for the user.
This value is not used if the user already exists.

Valid range: 0-60000

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    UID: 1000
```

### PasswordHashed [bool]

Default: `false`.

When set to true, specifies that the password provided by either `Password` or
`PasswordPath` has already been hashed and may be copied directly into the
`/etc/shadow` file.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    # Generated by:
    #   PASSWORD="password"
    #   SALT=$(tr -dc "A-Za-z0-9" < /dev/urandom 2> /dev/null | head -c 12)
    #   openssl passwd -6 -salt "$SALT" "$PASSWORD"
    Password: "$6$XH9YwqAMPohT$YQ0fqon.KOXz9AfjP5LE6VHifnNcsIgxmeX/iM5VF1GpFJTOpnTY.UGVRA.Xb8gYdVFqkYnnpJwlaIU1LhNHB/"
    PasswordHashed: true
```

Note: Modern GPUs have gotten incredibly good at brute forcing hashed passwords.
While hashing passwords is still considered best practice, unless the password is
incredibly strong (32+ randomly generated characters), then it is recommended
that you treat a hashed password with the same care as a plain-text password.

### Password [string]

Sets the user's password.

Use of this property is strongly discouraged, except when debugging.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    Password: testpassword
```

### PasswordPath [string]

Sets the user's password.
The password is read from the file path specified.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    PasswordPath: test-password.txt
```

### PasswordExpiresDays [int]

The number of days until the password expires and the user can no longer login.

Valid range: 0-99999. Set to -1 to remove expiry.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    PasswordPath: test-password.txt
    PasswordHashed: true
    PasswordExpiresDays: 120
```

### SSHPubKeyPaths [string[]]

File paths to SSH public key files.
These public keys will be copied into the user's `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` file.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    SSHPubKeyPaths:
    - id_ed25519.pub
```

### PrimaryGroup [string]

The primary group of the user.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    PrimaryGroup: testgroup
```

### SecondaryGroups [string[]]

Additional groups to assign to the user.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    SecondaryGroups:
    - sudo
```

### StartupCommand [string]

The command run when the user logs in.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    StartupCommand: /sbin/nologin
```

Commit message:

Image Customizer: Add support for kernel command-line

toolkit/tools/imagecustomizer/docs/configuration.md, after:

# Mariner Image Customizer configuration

The Mariner Image Customizer is configured using a YAML (or JSON) file.

### Operation ordering

1. Override the `/etc/resolv.conf` file with the version from the host OS.

2. Update packages:

   1. Remove packages ([PackageListsRemove](#packagelistsremove-string),
   [PackagesRemove](#packagesremove-string))

   2. Update base image packages ([UpdateBaseImagePackages](#updatebaseimagepackages-bool)).

   3. Install packages ([PackageListsInstall](#packagelistsinstall-string),
   [PackagesInstall](#packagesinstall-string))

   4. Update packages ([PackageListsUpdate](#packagelistsupdate-string),
   [PackagesUpdate](#packagesupdate-string))

3. Update hostname. ([Hostname](#hostname-string))

4. Copy additional files. ([AdditionalFiles](#additionalfiles-mapstring-fileconfig))

5. Add/update users. ([Users](#users-user))

6. Enable/disable services. ([Services](#services-type))

7. Configure kernel modules.

8. Run post-install scripts. ([PostInstallScripts](#postinstallscripts-script))

9. Run finalize image scripts. ([FinalizeImageScripts](#finalizeimagescripts-script))

10. Delete `/etc/resolv.conf` file.

### /etc/resolv.conf

The `/etc/resolv.conf` file is overridden so that the package installation and
customization scripts can have access to the network.
It is assumed there is a process that runs on boot that will write the
`/etc/resolv.conf` file.
For example, `systemd-resolved`.
Hence, the `/etc/resolv.conf` file is simply deleted at the end instead of being
restored to its original contents.

### Replacing packages

If you wish to replace a package with conflicting package, then you can remove the
existing package using [PackagesRemove](#packagesremove-string) and then install the
new package with [PackagesInstall](#packagesinstall-string).

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackagesRemove:
  - kernel

  PackagesInstall:
  - kernel-hci
```

## Top-level

The top level type for the YAML file is the [Config](#config-type) type.

## Config type

The top-level type of the configuration.

### Disks [[Disk](#disk-type)[]]

Contains the options for provisioning disks and their partitions.

If the Disks field isn't specified, then the partitions of the base image aren't
changed.

If Disks is specified, then [SystemConfig.BootType](#boottype-boottype) must also be
specified.

While Disks is a list, only 1 disk is supported at the moment.
Support for multiple disks may (or may not) be added in the future.

```yaml
Disks:
- PartitionTableType: gpt
  MaxSize: 4096
  Partitions:
  - ID: esp
    Flags:
    - esp
    - boot
    Start: 1
    End: 9
    FsType: fat32

  - ID: rootfs
    Start: 9
    FsType: ext4

SystemConfig:
  BootType: efi
  PartitionSettings:
  - ID: esp
    MountPoint: /boot/efi
    MountOptions: umask=0077

  - ID: rootfs
    MountPoint: /
```

### SystemConfig [[SystemConfig](#systemconfig-type)]

Contains the configuration options for the OS.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Hostname: example-image
```

## Disk type

Specifies the properties of a disk, including its partitions.

### PartitionTableType [string]

Specifies how the partition tables are laid out.

Supported options:

- `gpt`: Use the GUID Partition Table (GPT) format.

### MaxSize [uint64]

The size of the disk, specified in mebibytes (MiB).

### Partitions [[Partition](#partition-type)]

The partitions to provision on the disk.

## FileConfig type

Specifies options for placing a file in the OS.

Type is used by: [AdditionalFiles](#additionalfiles-mapstring-fileconfig)

### Path [string]

The absolute path of the destination file.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  AdditionalFiles:
    files/a.txt:
    - Path: /a.txt
```

### Permissions [string]

The permissions to set on the destination file.

Supported formats:

- String containing an octal string. e.g. `"664"`

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  AdditionalFiles:
    files/a.txt:
    - Path: /a.txt
      Permissions: "664"
```

## KernelCommandLine type

Options for configuring the kernel.

### ExtraCommandLine

Additional Linux kernel command line options to add during partition customization.

This value may only be used when when the [Disks](#disks-disk) and
[SystemConfig.PartitionSettings](#partitionsettings-partitionsetting) fields are
specified.

### CommandLineAdd

Additional Linux kernel command line options to add during image customization.

## Module type

Options for configuring a kernel module.

### Name

Name of the module.

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Modules:
    Load:
    - Name: br_netfilter
```

## Modules type

Options for configuring kernel modules.

### Load [[Module](#module-type)[]]

Sets kernel modules to be loaded automatically on boot.

Implemented by adding an entry to `/etc/modules-load.d/`.

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Modules:
    Load:
    - Name: br_netfilter
```

### Disable [[Module](#module-type)[]]

Disable kernel modules from being loaded.

Implemented by adding a "blacklist" entry to `/etc/modprobe.d/`.

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Modules:
    Disable:
    - Name: mousedev
```

## PackageList type

Used to split off lists of packages into a separate file.
This is useful for sharing list of packages between different configuration files.

This type is used by:

- [PackageListsInstall](#packagelistsinstall-string)
- [PackageListsRemove](#packagelistsremove-string)
- [PackageListsUpdate](#packagelistsupdate-string)

### Packages [string[]]

Specifies a list of packages.

Example:

```yaml
Packages:
- openssh-server
```

## Partition type

### ID [string]

Required.

The ID of the partition.
This is used correlate Partition objects with [PartitionSetting](#partitionsetting-type)
objects.

### FsType [string]

Required.

The filesystem type of the partition.

Supported options:

- `ext4`
- `fat32`
- `xfs`

### Name [string]

The label to assign to the partition.

### Start [uint64]

Required.

The start location (inclusive) of the partition, specified in MiBs.

### End [uint64]

The end location (exclusive) of the partition, specified in MiBs.

The End and Size fields cannot be specified at the same time.

Either the Size or End field is required for all partitions except for the last
partition.
When both the Size and End fields are omitted, the last partition will fill the
remainder of the disk (based on the disk's [MaxSize](#maxsize-uint64) field).

### Size [uint64]

The size of the partition, specified in MiBs.

### Flags [string[]]

Specifies options for the partition.

Supported options:

- `esp`: The UEFI System Partition (ESP).
  The partition must have a `FsType` of `fat32`.

  When specified on a GPT formatted disk, the `boot` flag must also be added.

- `bios_grub`: Specifies this partition is the BIOS boot partition.
  This is required for GPT disks that wish to be bootable using legacy BIOS mode.

  This partition must start at block 1.

  This flag is only supported on GPT formatted disks.

  For further details, see: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BIOS_boot_partition

- `boot`: Specifies that this partition contains the boot loader.

  When specified on a GPT formatted disk, the `esp` flag must also be added.

These options mirror those in
[parted](https://www.gnu.org/software/parted/manual/html_node/set.html).

## PartitionSetting type

Specifies the mount options for a partition.

### ID [string]

Required.

The ID of the partition.
This is used correlate [Partition](#partition-type) objects with PartitionSetting
objects.

### MountIdentifier [string]

Default: `partuuid`

The partition ID type that should be used to recognize the partition on the disk.

Supported options:

- `uuid`: The filesystem's partition UUID.

- `partuuid`: The partition UUID specified in the partition table.

- `partlabel`: The partition label specified in the partition table.

### MountOptions [string]

The additional options used when mounting the file system.

These options are in the same format as [mount](https://linux.die.net/man/8/mount)'s
`-o` option (or the `fs_mntops` field of the
[fstab](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/fstab.5.html) file).

### MountPoint [string]

Required.

The absolute path of where the partition should be mounted.

The mounts will be sorted to ensure that parent directories are mounted before child
directories.
For example, `/boot` will be mounted before `/boot/efi`.

## Script type

Points to a script file (typically a Bash script) to be run during customization.

### Path [string]

The path of the script.

This must be in the same directory or a sub-directory that the config file is located
in.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PostInstallScripts:
  - Path: scripts/a.sh
```

### Args [string]

Additional arguments to pass to the script.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PostInstallScripts:
  - Path: scripts/a.sh
    Args: abc
```

## Services type

Options for configuring systemd services.

### Enable

A list of services to enable.
That is, services that will be set to automatically run on OS boot.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Services:
    Enable:
    - sshd
```

### Disable

A list of services to disable.
That is, services that will be set to not automatically run on OS boot.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Services:
    Disable:
    - sshd
```

## SystemConfig type

Contains the configuration options for the OS.

### BootType [string]

Specifies the boot system that the image supports.

Supported options:

- `legacy`: Support booting from BIOS firmware.

  When this option is specified, the partition layout must contain a partition with the
  `bios_grub` flag.

- `efi`: Support booting from UEFI firmware.

  When this option is specified, the partition layout must contain a partition with the
  `esp` flag.

### Hostname [string]

Specifies the hostname for the OS.

Implemented by writing to the `/etc/hostname` file.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Hostname: example-image
```

### KernelCommandLine [[KernelCommandLine](#kernelcommandline-type)]

Specifies extra kernel command line options, as well as other configuration values
relating to the kernel.

### UpdateBaseImagePackages [bool]

Updates the packages that exist in the base image.

Implemented by calling: `tdnf update`

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  UpdateBaseImagePackages: true
```

### PackageListsInstall [string[]]

Same as [PackagesInstall](#packagesinstall-string) but the packages are specified in a
separate YAML (or JSON) file.

The other YAML file schema is specified by [PackageList](#packagelist-type).

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackageListsRemove:
  - lists/ssh.yaml
```

### PackagesInstall [string[]]

Installs packages onto the image.

Implemented by calling: `tdnf install`.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackagesInstall:
  - openssh-server
```

### PackageListsRemove [string[]]

Same as [PackagesRemove](#packagesremove-string) but the packages are specified in a
separate YAML (or JSON) file.

The other YAML file schema is specified by [PackageList](#packagelist-type).

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackageListsRemove:
  - lists/ssh.yaml
```

### PackagesRemove [string[]]

Removes packages from the image.

Implemented by calling: `tdnf remove`

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackagesRemove:
  - openssh-server
```

### PackageListsUpdate [string[]]

Same as [PackagesUpdate](#packagesupdate-string) but the packages are specified in a
separate YAML (or JSON) file.

The other YAML file schema is specified by [PackageList](#packagelist-type).

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackageListsUpdate:
  - lists/ssh.yaml
```

### PackagesUpdate [string[]]

Updates packages on the system.

Implemented by calling: `tdnf update`

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PackagesUpdate:
  - openssh-server
```

### AdditionalFiles [Map\<string, [FileConfig](#fileconfig-type)[]>]

Copy files into the OS image.

This property is a dictionary of source file paths to destination files.

The destination files value can be one of:

- The absolute path of a destination file.
- A [FileConfig](#fileconfig-type) object.
- A list containing a mixture of paths and [FileConfig](#fileconfig-type) objects.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  AdditionalFiles:
    # Single destination.
    files/a.txt: /a.txt

    # Single destinations with options.
    files/b.txt:
      Path: /b.txt
      Permissions: "664"

    # Multiple destinations.
    files/c.txt:
    - /c1.txt
    - Path: /c2.txt
      Permissions: "664"
```

### PartitionSettings [[PartitionSetting](#partitionsetting-type)[]]

Specifies the mount options of the partitions.

### PostInstallScripts [[Script](#script-type)[]]

Scripts to run against the image after the packages have been added and removed.

These scripts are run under a chroot of the customized OS.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  PostInstallScripts:
  - Path: scripts/a.sh
```

### FinalizeImageScripts [[Script](#script-type)[]]

Scripts to run against the image just before the image is finalized.

These scripts are run under a chroot of the customized OS.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  FinalizeImageScripts:
  - Path: scripts/a.sh
```

### Users [[User](#user-type)]

Used to add and/or update user accounts.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
```

### Services [[Services](#services-type)]

Options for configuring systemd services.

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Services:
    Enable:
    - sshd
```

### Modules [[Modules](#modules-type)]

Options for configuration kernel modules.

## User type

Options for configuring a user account.

### Name [string]

Required.

The name of the user.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
```

### UID [int]

The ID to use for the user.
This value is not used if the user already exists.

Valid range: 0-60000

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    UID: 1000
```

### PasswordHashed [bool]

Default: `false`.

When set to true, specifies that the password provided by either `Password` or
`PasswordPath` has already been hashed and may be copied directly into the
`/etc/shadow` file.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    # Generated by:
    #   PASSWORD="password"
    #   SALT=$(tr -dc "A-Za-z0-9" < /dev/urandom 2> /dev/null | head -c 12)
    #   openssl passwd -6 -salt "$SALT" "$PASSWORD"
    Password: "$6$XH9YwqAMPohT$YQ0fqon.KOXz9AfjP5LE6VHifnNcsIgxmeX/iM5VF1GpFJTOpnTY.UGVRA.Xb8gYdVFqkYnnpJwlaIU1LhNHB/"
    PasswordHashed: true
```

Note: Modern GPUs have gotten incredibly good at brute forcing hashed passwords.
While hashing passwords is still considered best practice, unless the password is
incredibly strong (32+ randomly generated characters), then it is recommended
that you treat a hashed password with the same care as a plain-text password.

### Password [string]

Sets the user's password.

Use of this property is strongly discouraged, except when debugging.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    Password: testpassword
```

### PasswordPath [string]

Sets the user's password.
The password is read from the file path specified.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    PasswordPath: test-password.txt
```

### PasswordExpiresDays [int]

The number of days until the password expires and the user can no longer login.

Valid range: 0-99999. Set to -1 to remove expiry.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    PasswordPath: test-password.txt
    PasswordHashed: true
    PasswordExpiresDays: 120
```

### SSHPubKeyPaths [string[]]

File paths to SSH public key files.
These public keys will be copied into the user's `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` file.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    SSHPubKeyPaths:
    - id_ed25519.pub
```

### PrimaryGroup [string]

The primary group of the user.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    PrimaryGroup: testgroup
```

### SecondaryGroups [string[]]

Additional groups to assign to the user.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    SecondaryGroups:
    - sudo
```

### StartupCommand [string]

The command run when the user logs in.

Example:

```yaml
SystemConfig:
  Users:
  - Name: test
    StartupCommand: /sbin/nologin
```
