toolkit/tools/imagecustomizer/docs/container.md, before:

# Using the Azure Linux Image Customizer Container

The Image Customizer container is designed to simplify the process of
customizing and configuring system images using the Azure Linux Image Customizer
(MIC) tool.

## Running the Container

To use the Image Customizer container, you will need to pass several parameters
and mount appropriate volumes for the image and device access. Below is a
step-by-step guide on how to run this container:

### Prepare Your Environment

Ensure that your configuration file (config.yaml) is ready and accessible. This
file should define the customization parameters for the MIC tool. Details please
see
[configuration.md](https://github.com/microsoft/azurelinux/blob/3.0-dev/toolkit/tools/imagecustomizer/docs/configuration.md).

### Run the Container

Pull the image:

```
docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/azurelinux/imagecustomizer:0.3.0
```

You can use your own base image, for example:

```
docker run --rm --privileged=true \
   -v ~/image:/image:z \
   -v /dev:/dev \
   mcr.microsoft.com/azurelinux/imagecustomizer:0.3.0 \
   --image-file /baseimg.vhdx \
   --config-file /config.yaml \
   --output-image-format raw \
   --output-image-file /image/customized.raw
```

### Check the Output

After the container executes, check the output directory on your host for the
customized image file. This file contains your customized system image.

Commit message:

image customizer: docs for run.sh (#10159)

toolkit/tools/imagecustomizer/docs/container.md, after:

# Using the Azure Linux Image Customizer Container

The Image Customizer container is designed to simplify the process of
customizing and configuring system images using the Azure Linux Image Customizer
(MIC) tool.

## Running the Container

To use the Image Customizer container, you will need to pass several parameters
and mount appropriate volumes for the image and device access. Below is a
step-by-step guide on how to run this container:

### Prepare Your Environment

Ensure that your configuration file (config.yaml) is ready and accessible. This
file should define the customization parameters for the MIC tool. Details please
see
[configuration.md](https://github.com/microsoft/azurelinux/blob/3.0-dev/toolkit/tools/imagecustomizer/docs/configuration.md).

### Run the Container

Pull the image:

```
docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/azurelinux/imagecustomizer:0.3.0
```

You can use your own base image, for example:

```
docker run --rm --privileged=true \
   -v ~/image:/image:z \
   -v /dev:/dev \
   mcr.microsoft.com/azurelinux/imagecustomizer:0.3.0 \
   --image-file /baseimg.vhdx \
   --config-file /config.yaml \
   --output-image-format raw \
   --output-image-file /image/customized.raw
```

Alternatively, you can use the [run.sh](https://github.com/microsoft/azurelinux/blob/3.0-dev/toolkit/tools/imagecustomizer/container/test-mic-container.sh)
script on the container which runs `imagecustomizer` with a base image downloaded from MCR.

Usage: ``` run.sh $version_tag ```

For a complete usage example, refer to [test-mic-container.sh](https://github.com/microsoft/azurelinux/blob/3.0-dev/toolkit/tools/imagecustomizer/container/test-mic-container.sh).

### Check the Output

After the container executes, check the output directory on your host for the
customized image file. This file contains your customized system image.
