# Azure Linux Image Customizer ISO Support

## Overview

The Azure Linux Image Customizer can customize an input image and package the
output as a LiveOS iso image. The input image can be a full disk image
(vhd/vhdx/qcow2/raw) or another LiveOS iso image. The LiveOS iso output format
is specified by setting the `--output-image-format` command line parameter to
`iso`.

The LiveOS iso image is a bootable image that boots into a rootfs image
included on the iso media without the need to have anything pre-installed
on the target machine. The rootfs is kept read-only and an overlay in memory
is created so that processes can successfully write state.

Customizations are made to the input rootfs as usual using the Azure Linux
Image Customizer, and will naturally carry over into the LiveOS iso image.
This includes customizations for kernel modules, dracut, and other early
boot-time actions.

While converting the input full disk image into a LiveOS iso involves copying
almost all the artifacts unchanged - some artifacts are changed as follows:
- `grub.cfg` is modified by updating the kernel command-line arguments as
  follows:
  - the root is updated to the LiveOS root file system image.
  - the LiveOS dracut parameters are appended.
  - the user-specified new parameters are appended.
  - SELinux is disabled.
- `/etc/fstab` is dropped from the rootfs as it typically conflicts with the
  overlay setup required by the LiveOS.
- `initrd.img` is regenerated to serve the LiveOS boot flow. This should have
  no impact as long as the included rootfs is where the original `initrd.img`
  was generated using `dracut`. The use of such rootfs guarantees that the same
  dracut configuration that got used before will be re-used again when we are
  re-generating the `initrd.img` and hence the original behavior is retained.

The current implementation for the LiveOS iso does not support the following:
- persistent storage.
  - The machine loses all its state on reboot or shutdown.
- dm-verity.
  - The iso image cannot run dm-verity for the LiveOS partitions.
- disk layout.
  - There is always one disk generated when an `iso` output format is
    specified.
- SELinux
  - No SELinux configuration is supported for the generated iso image.
- non-"Azure Linux toolkit" images
  - images generated by tools other than the Azure Linux toolkit may fail to be
    converted to a LiveOS iso. This is due to certain assumptions on the input
    image layout that may not be satisfied. See the section titled "Input Image
    Layout Assumptions" for more details.

## ISO Specific Customizations

- The user can specify one or more files to be copied to the iso media.
- The user can add kernel parameters.

For a full list of capabilities, see Azure Linux Image Customizer's iso
configuration section: [Config.ISO](./configuration.md#iso-type).

## cloud-init Support

In some user scenarios, it desired to embed the cloud-init data files into the
iso media. The easiest way is to include the data files on the media, and then
the cloud-init `ds` kernel parameter to where the files are.

The files can be placed directly within the iso file system or they can be
placed within the LiveOS root file system.

Placing those files directly on the iso file system will allow a more efficient
replacement flow in the future (i.e. when it is desired to only replace the
cloud-init data files).

#### Example 1

If cloud-init data is to be placed directly within the iso file system:

```yaml
scripts:
  postCustomization:
  - content: |
      set -e
      mkdir -p /var/lib/cloud/seed/
      ln -s -T /run/initramfs/live/cloud-init-data /var/lib/cloud/seed/nocloud 

iso:
  additionalFiles:
    cloud-init-data/user-data: /cloud-init-data/user-data
    cloud-init-data/network-config: /cloud-init-data/network-config
    cloud-init-data/meta-data: /cloud-init-data/meta-data

  kernelCommandLine:
    extraCommandLine:
    - "ds=nocloud"
```

Note: It is tempting to specify
`extraCommandLine: "'ds=nocloud;seedfrom=file://run/initramfs/live/cloud-init-data'"`,
instead of using a symbolic link.
But cloud-init ignores the `network-config` file when you use `seedfrom`.
See, cloud-init issue [#3307](https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/issues/3307).

#### Example 2

If cloud-init data is to be placed within the LiveOS root file system:

```yaml
os:
  kernelCommandLine:
    extraCommandLine:
    - "ds=nocloud"

  additionalFiles:
    cloud-init-data/user-data: /var/lib/cloud/seed/nocloud/user-data
    cloud-init-data/network-config: /var/lib/cloud/seed/nocloud/network-config
    cloud-init-data/meta-data: /var/lib/cloud/seed/nocloud/meta-data
```

## Input Image Layout Assumptions

### Full Disk Image

The input full disk image must satisfy the following requirements in order for
the Azure Linux Image Cuztomizer to be able to generate an iso image out of it:
- File layout (after all partitions have been mounted):
  - `/boot/grub2/grub.cfg` must exist and is the 'main' grub configuration (not
    a redirection grub configuration file for example).
  - The bootloader and the shim must exist under the `/boot` folder or any of
    its subdirectories.
    - For x64, `bootx64.efi` and `grubx64.efi` (or `grubx64-noprefix.efi`).
    - For ARM64, `bootaa64.efi` and `grubaa64.efi` (or `grubaa64-noprefix.efi`).
  - All grub configurations and related files must be stored under the `/boot`
    folder. For example, grub.cfg cannot reference files outside that folder.
    If it does, those referenced files will not be copied to the iso and may
    cause grub to fail booting the desired operating system.

### LiveOS ISO Image

The input LiveOS iso image must be previously generated by the Azure Linux Image
Customizer.
